Deer Creek Golf Club has been in the golf industry for over 50 years and has seen how some beginner golfers can be missing the basic knowledge of golf before playing their first rounds. Golf is a sport rich in tradition and history. As a result, it has many terms, rules, and regulations that can be tough to learn at first. This is why our golf experts at our South Florida Golf Course compiled a list of common golf terms, rules, etiquette, tournaments, and equipment so that you show up to the course prepared.

As part of our expert’s beginner’s guide to golf, we are helping new golfers understand the different golfing terms they need to know before their first round of golf.

It is important to understand and follow at least the basic rules of golf to ensure a fair game is played and that the sport is competitive for all players. Our experts at Deer Creek have put together the main rules to follow when playing golf.

You can check out the official rules of golf on the USGA website.

Although golf is a competitive sport, there are general guidelines and etiquette that are expected to be followed on the course. While not found in the official rule book, these guidelines are expected to be followed at all golf courses, including our Deerfield Beach, Florida course.

A golf handicap is a number that represents the skill level of a golfer. A golf handicap will vary from player to player and is based on previous scores achieved. The formula for calculating your golf score can change from year to year. You can find the latest handicap calculator on the official USGA website here. In order to calculate your handicap, you will need to have golfed at least a 9 or 18-hole course and have your scorecard handy.

A great way to learn more about the game of golf is to watch the professionals. Watching professional players golf can also give you pointers on your own game and set an example for yourself. The major golf tournaments are as follows:

Our Deer Creek Golf Course is open to the public, and to any and all golfers, from beginners to professionals. There are no handicap requirements to playing, and we only ask that you respect the golf etiquette outlined above. Check out our tee times and rates for our renowned course.

For further golf information and golf classes to improve your game, check out our golf lessons available to all and tailor-made for your skill level. Contact us today for further information regarding memberships and our famed golf course.

Cringeworthy Stories About Cheating in Golf

The Best Golf TV Shows to Watch

What Do Golf Club Numbers Mean?

​

Deer Creek Golf Club
2801 Deer Creek Country Club Blvd.
Deerfield Beach, Florida 33442 USA
Phone: 954-429-0006

CLICK FOR MAP

©  2025 - Deer Creek Golf Club.

