Source: https://rotaryswing.com/golf-instruction/golf-instruction-articles-rs1
Description: Règles de Golf - Rotary Swing
==================================================

Ben Hogan's Swing from Down the Line

Ben Hogan's Golf Swing: Shoulder Plane

Ben Hogan's Golf Swing: Address Position

What You Can Learn from the Ben Hogan Golf Swing

Sam Snead's Golf Swing

Stuart Appleby's Golf Swing

Jose Maria Olazabal 's Golf Swing

Peter Jacobsen's Golf Swing

Annika Sorenstam's Golf Swing - One Plane or Two?

Tyler Aldridge's Swing - Stop Excess Head Movement in the Golf Swing

Is the Rotary Golf Swing 1.0 an Outside in Swing

Flat Left Wrist at Impact

Driver vs. Irons Impact

Impact Fix Drill

Golf Grip | Proper Golf Grip Instruction

Golf Fade, How to Hit a Golf Fade

Differences in Swing Mechanics Working Hitting a Fade and Draw

Arms vs. Body Release in the Golf Swing

Hitting the Ball High

Tiger Woods 2 Iron Stinger

Hitting the Ball Low - How to Hit Low Penetrating Golf Shots

How to Hit the Driver Off the Deck

Stop Flipping the Golf Club with the Proper Use of the Left Pinky

The Three Main Golf Swing Releases

Professional Golfer Paul Dickinson 7 Iron Swing Sequence

The Rotary Drill - Master the Golf Swing with One Simple Drill

Rotary Golf Body Drill

Increase Lag Drill - Improve Your Lag in the Golf Swing

Golf Impact, Impact Bag Drill

Bucket Drill for Synchronizing Your Golf Swing

Divots Left Tee Drill

One Legged Golf Swing Drill

Headcover Drill

Ben Hogan Pane of Glass Swing Drill

Shaft Plane Drill

9 O'Clock Swing Plane

How to Achieve a Penetrating Golf Ball Flight

In to Out Tee Drill to Stop Coming Over the Top

Neck Tie Drill to Get Rid of Reverse Pivot

Broom Drill

The Holy Grail of Golf - How To Create Lag in the Golf Swing

Understanding Missed Golf Shots in the Rotary Swing

Missing Golf Shots Right - How To Cure It and Hit It Straight

Hitting Shots Thin in the Golf Swing

Hitting Fat Golf Shots

Left Side Breakdown in the Golf Swing

Missing Golf Shots Left - How To Cure It and Hit It Straight

Missing Shots Off the Toe

Coming Too Far From the Inside

Missing Shots Off the Heel - Shanking

How to Stop Pulling Shots in the Rotary Golf Swing

Model Golf Swing | RS vs. RST Which Ones Right For You

Passive Arms in the Golf Swing

Rotary Swing Takeaway

Rotary Golf Swing - Rhythm in the One Plane Swing

What Move Starts the Golf Swing?

Golf Downswing Forearm and Shaft Alignment/Plane

A Student's Swing - The Bump Transition

How to Keep Your Head Behind the Ball in the Golf Swing at Impact

Proper Wrist Set in the Rotary Golf Swing

Proper Hip Rotation in the Rotary Golf Backswing

Ernie Els and Stuart Appleby Slide the Shaft Drill

Rotary Golf Swing Rotation Through the Ball - Side by Side Comparison

Rotary Golf Swing - Takeaway Chin Line

Biomechanically Shorten Your Backswing

Rotating vs Tilting the Shoulders

Hitting the Ball With Your Core

Rotary Hitter Chip Stroke

Rotary Swing vs Rotary Hitter

Rotary Swing Hitter Backswing and Role of the Right Arm

Rotary Swing Hitter Shoulder Turn and Right Arm in Downswing

Rotary Hitter Golf Swing Takeaway

Ben Hogan - Pure Ball Striker for the Rotary Hitter

Chuck Quinton 6 Iron Analysis Down the Line - 2005

Chuck Quinton 6 Iron Analysis Face On - 2005

Ernie Els as a One Planer

Tiger Woods Downswing

Learn How YOU Can Develop Tiger Woods Swing!

Tiger Woods Takeaway

Tiger Woods New Address Position

Tiger Woods Backswing

Tiger Woods Swing

We're after one thing: Real Results - Real Fast. 
And that's exactly what our members achieve. 
And that's why they say the AXIOM is: 
Mind-blowing. Game changing. Revolutionary.

Check it out ...

Here at RotarySwing, talk is cheap and the proof is always in the pudding. 
Come see the massive transformations we can achieve together in your swing.

See for yourself ...

From beginner to pro, we have what you need to get you where you want to go.

See how inside ...

RotarySwing was founded out of frustration with the current state of golf instruction. Quinton knew a better way had to exist to learn this game we all love.

Learn more ...

Forgot password?

The GOAT Code is finally ready after 3 decades of exhaustive work - 
						you can now learn how to play the game like Tiger and have incredible 
						control over the ball. This NEW program is truly a step-by-step process 
						that takes you from green to tee and will teach you the secrets of how 
						to play like the Greatest Of All Time. If you would like to switch over 
						to the new GOAT Code program, simply click the green button below. 
						Don't worry, you can easily switch back at any time and will see a new 
						button at the top of your screen to switch back whenever you like.

What are the main advantages of the new program?

There's a reason that Earl Woods taught Tiger how to play the game 
				from the green back.

I admit, at first, even I didn't think it was necessary. I thought I 
				could skip ahead and learn the full swing without building a solid 
				foundation in putting, chipping and pitching.

All this belief did was cost me MORE time than had I started 
				at the beginning just like The GOAT did. Over the past 20 years of 
				doing golf clinics, my observations of thousands of students was 
				always the same - those who started the slowest at the beginning 
				always got there the fasted in the end.

In other words, the students I observed being diligent with the 
				small things like grip, setup, posture and the basics of controlling 
				the clubface on day 1 were always WAY further ahead of those who 
				didn't on day 1.

In the post above by member Everett, he said it all in a nutshell. 
				Go through the program exactly the way it is laid out and you 
				will have extraordinary results. Skip to the end and you'll end up 
				with the exact same swing you started with.

This is a system, not a grouping of random tips. 
				There is a method to my madness deeply rooted in learning psychology 
				and over 30 years of teaching hundreds of thousands of golfers 
				just like you how to hit a ball with a stick. Slow down and you'll 
				get there faster...

This site uses cookies & similar. 
			More.
			Close

