Recently got back into things after my clubs lived in the closet for a few years. Went with my buddy a couple times to the local course and rediscovered the passion for golf I had 15 years ago on the high school team. Decided to commit to holding onto that passion before it faded again by getting a lesson (my first ever with a real pro and holy fuck best $100 ever spent, idk if im allowed to say where it was but if you are in Oregon and want a fantastic lesson DM me) and a membership to a 24/7 simulator for the winter.

As I said the lesson was incredible. In just an hour he fixed my habit of coming over the top causing a massive slice to actually coming slightly inside out. I still have to fine tune the contact but when I hit it good I hit it GOOD. FF to this morning and I decided to get some playing in rather than scroll on my phone in bed until the sunrise. Hit a few practice shots trying to incorporate what I remembered from the lesson and then decided to play 18 at Payne's Valley.

Front 9 was about how things have always gone for me. Some good shots but some poor contact and poor short game. Almost exclusively a double bogey or higher each hole. I think my best hole on the front was a bogey on 8. Then in the back 9 I kinda figured things out. Started with back to back pars followed by a birdie. I know it's a simulator but that was the best 3 holes I've ever played in my life. Followed that up with a bogey, a double, then 2 more bogeys. Which I was still very happy with because right now I'm just trying to focus on eliminating the doubles. Can't remember exactly what I got on 17 but know it was bogey or better.

The 18th hole loads. I'm already thinking about my reddit post of my score card with the title "figured things out on the back 9." Tee shot needs to go 100 or something to carry the water. No problem, my driver hasn't been consistently in line but it's had no trouble getting 200 carry all round and there's plenty of fairway to work with. Obviously I hit it thin. The ball goes straight for the water. Honestly if it were real life I think the ball could've skipped on the water and made it but I dont think the simulator works like that. Re-tee and try again. Smashed it right down the target line with a slight draw. Still have a ways to go on the par 5 so I take out the 3 wood. Normally I don't play it but I'm trying to get better and I had hit it at least playable a couple times already. Shanked, caughted on the very edge of the toe. It actually bounces off the wall and fucks with the sim so it thinks it went left... right into more water. Fortunately it was a lateral water hazard so I at least have a shot at the green. Leave it short and finally get on in 7. 3 putted for a +5.

The 18th hole is a cooldown hole right?

I have plenty of misses/bad shots on both the range and course. You name it - slice, if not shank, toe shots, pulls, etc. Obviously the dynamic between mats and grass is different, as well as the mental aspect, but considering I can “duplicate” all of my other misses that I have on the course when I’m on the range, I find it curious that I rarely top the ball on the range, when it’s my most common miss on the course. Is there a way I can identify a shot on the range that likely would’ve been topped on the course?

Thanks as always!

Anyone can view, post, and comment to this community

If you don't see your post, it's probably because your account has low karma and AutoModerator removed it. Just send the mods a message and we'll approve it as soon as we can.

No Buying/Selling/Trading Posts. Keep all of those posts to r/golfclassifieds

We remove blogspam, valueless posts, duplicates, and corporate marketing. You will be banned without warning for any homophobic or racist dialogue, inciting violence, trolling or witch hunting behavior or attacking other users.

Are you a teaching pro? Want a cool certified pro flair to add some credibility to your swing advice? Message the mods with your credentials and username and we'll ad the Certified Pro flair to your profile!

Do not sell your products on r/golf. The exception to this rule is the daily deal thread that is closely monitored by the mods of this subreddit. To participate in the daily deal thread you must first message the moderators for permission.

Do not spam this subreddit with any information at any time. This subreddit is designed for natural and organic conversation.

Keep all such posts to r/golfclassifieds. Even public offers to buy/sell/trade in comments are not allowed.

Please do not engage in any kind of hostile communication with any poster on r/golf either here on the subreddit, in private messages OR in real life. There is no reason to be negative. We all just want to be better golfers and enjoy ourselves out there.

Please do not use r/golf for political discussion.

You will be banned immediately for posts with NSFW content that are not tagged as such.

Got a photo you took on your phone of a swing with a mad crazy shaft flex? It's due to rolling shutter effect and there's no need to share it with us.

And we've seen every bad photoshopped ad for a chipping net being used with a putter or DJ hitting driver on a putting mat on a driveway. Those posts will be deleted.

No AI generated pictures, no ChatGPT written posts, posts must be organic and your own content.

